In a logistic regression model,
how do we turn parameter
estimates into model predictions?
The key is the form of the model.
Remember that the likelihood is Bernoulli
which gives us a one with probability p.
We model the logic transformation of p
as a linear model of the predictors.
Which we showed in the first
segment of this lesson,
leads to an exponential form for
the expected value or p.
It's this exponential form, right here.
So if we have the coefficients and
the predictor values.
We can plug them into this
equation to get an estimate of
the probability that the response is one.
We're going to use the second model.
So let's extract the posterior
means of the coefficients.
From the combined simulation,
And look at the values of those.
The posterior mean of the intercept was
about negative zero point one five.
Because we centered and scaled all of
the covariants, values of zero for
each of the predictor variables
corresponds to their average values.
Therefore, if we use this last model,
then our point estimate for
the probability of
calcium oxalate crystals.
When the specific gravity,
conductivity, and
calcium concentration are at
their average values.
That gives us zeros for the x's here.
Then our predicted value for
the probability of calcium oxalate
crystals will involve only the intercept.
Let's code that up.
It'll be one divided by one plus
an exponential of negative of negative
.15 which is positive 0.15.
This means that if we use our
posterior mean point estimates.
We estimate that the probability
of absorbing crystals at
the average values of these
three predictors is about 0.46.
Now let's suppose we want
to make a prediction for
a new specimen whose value as
specific gravity as at the average.
Whose value of conductivity is one
standard deviation below the mean.
And whose value of calcium concentration
is one standard deviation above the mean.
We can just modify this
calculation right here.
The intercept doesn't change
minus the coefficient for
the first data,
1.42 times the value that we'll use.
We were using the average so
that'll be zero.
Conductivity was one standard
deviation below the mean.
Will first add its coefficient
minus a negative 1.35 or
36 is the coefficient for that one.
And we're going to be doing one
standard deviation below the mean.
So that will be the value for that x.
And finally we want, calcium concentration
one standard deviation above the mean.
We start with the coefficient 1.88
times the value of the corresponding
x which was one standard deviation
above the mean and we'll run that.
If it gives us a probability
of almost 0.96 of
observing calcium oxalate crystals.
Remember the model was fit to standardize
the values of the predictor variables.
And so we need to use the standardized
values of these predictor variables when
making predictions from the model.
If we want to make predictions
in terms of the original
x variable values we have two options.
The first option is for each x variable,
we can subtract the mean.
And divide by the standard deviation for
that variable in the original
dataset used to fit the model.
Or we can refit the model without
centering and scaling the covariance.
So far, we've calculated predicted
probabilities of observing crystals for
hypothetical predictor values only.
We can use the same ideas
to make predictions for
each of the original data
points from the dataset.
This is similar to what we
did to calculate residuals in
our earlier linear models.
First, will take the X Matrix,
the design Matrix, and
Matrix multiplier with the posterior
means of the coefficients.
Let's create that variable, we'll call it,
pmxb for posterior mean of x beta.
And it will be pm coefficient
we want the intercept first.
Then to the intercept we're going
to add our design matrix which
we've already calculated.
And retain only columns one,
four, and six for
those three variables
we used in the model.
And matrix multiply that with pm
coefficients, one, two, three.
Before we run this let's make sure
we know what each piece is doing.
So the first piece here is the intercept.
Then we're going to take
the values of the predictors.
The first three are these
three columns for
specific gravity conductivity and
calcium concentration.
And we're going to matrix multiply
it with the posterior means of
the coefficients which
we calculated up here.
The matrix multiplication
does the following.
For observation two right here,
we'll multiply the specific gravity
value with its coefficient.
The conductivity value
with its coefficient and
a calcium with its coefficient.
And we'll add those three numbers
together, to get an x beta for
observation two.
Then the same thing will be repeated for
observation three,
all the way down through
the end of the dataset.
So let's go ahead and run that.
And it gives us those values for
each of the observations.
Now we need to turn this
into a prediction for
the probability using this
inverse transformation.
We've already calculated
the betas times the x variables.
So we need to finish calculating
the rest of this expression
p-hat will be our predicted probability.
It'll be 1.0 divided by 1.0
plus an exponential function
of negative one times rpm x data
that we just calculated.
Please make sure if you have any doubts
to carefully go through this expression.
And verify that it is in fact calculating
this number where it's extended for
three covariance.
Let's run that and
look at the first few values.
These are the resulting predicted
probability of observing crystals for
each of the observations in the dataset.
We can get a rough idea of how successful
the model is by plotting these predicted
values against the actual outcome.
We'll plot y-hat against
the response variable.
We use p-hat not y-hat.
Of course, the response variable could
take on values of only zero and one.
And it's kind of hard to
see what's going on here.
So let's rerun this plot by adding
some jitter to the ones and zeros.
Recall they're still ones and zeros, but
now they've been spread out a little
bit so that we can see them better.
Along the y axis,
we have the actual response, one or zero.
And along the x axis, the predicted
probability that it would be a one.
We can see that this model did okay, for
observations that have high values of
predicted probability of observing a one.
Many of them really were ones.
And down here, observations that have
low probability were often zeros.
Suppose we chose a cut off for
these predicted probabilities.
For example lets select 0.5 as our cutoff.
If the model tells us that
the probability is higher
than .5 we're going to classify
the observation as a one.
And if it is less than 0.5 on the left
here we're going to classify it as a zero.
We can tabulate these classifications
against the truth to see how
well the model predicts the original data
We'll create a table
based on a cutoff of 0.5,
Using the table function.
Where the first argument is whether or
not the predicted probability
is greater than 0.5.
And then we want to know whether
the response was actually zero or one.
Let's run that table.
Now take a look at the values.
So the false values here
are observations where p-hat
was less that 0.5 and
here they were larger than 0.5.
These observations were correctly
classified because their true value
was one.
And these observations were correctly
classified because their value was zero.
That is the correct one classifications
are the points in this region.
And the correct zero classifications
To calculate our correct
classification rate,
let's take a sum of
the diagonal of that table.
Those are the correct classifications.
And we'll divide by the sum
of the overall table.
This gives us a correct classification
rate of about 0.76 or 0.77.
Not too bad, but not great.
Now suppose that it is considered really
bad to predict that there will be no
calcium oxalate crystal
when in fact there is one.
We might then choose to
lower our threshold for
classifying the data points as ones.
Let's say we move that threshold
back over this direction to
point three and
we'll call that our cutoff.
That is if the model says that the
probability is greater than point three
will classify it as having
a calcium oxalate crystal.
Let's recalculate that tab 0.3.
So if it's greater than 0.3 will
classified it as having a crystal.
Let's run those as you can see,
we have reduced the incidence of false
negatives where we said there
would not be a crystal.
But in fact there was one, previously
there were 12 now there are only seven.
Let's check the success rate
of our classification here for
this cut off value.
It looks like we gave up
a little bit of predictive
accuracy to increase our chances
of detecting a true positive.
And to reduce our chances
of a false negative.
We could repeat this exercise for
many thresholds between zero and one.
Different cut off points here.
And for each one we could
calculate our error rates.
This is equivalent to calculating
what is called the ROC.
Or receiving operating
characteristics curve.
Which are often use to evaluate
classification techniques
like logistics regression.
These classification tables which we
have calculated are on in sample.
They were predicting the same data
that we use to fit the model.
We could get a better, less biased, and
more accurate assessment of
how well our models performs.
If we calculated these tables for
data that were not used to fit the model.
For example,
before we fit the model we can withhold
a set of randomly selected
tests data points.
And then use the model fit to the rest of
the training data to make predictions for
our test set.